I did mention that I also want to have swipeable items on the bookings page.
Right now, the bookings page of course is empty because we have no way of managing bookings, we'll not
really add the entire logic to manage them here either
but we can already get started with a little bit of bookings logic. And for that, I will add two things
and the first one is a booking model,
so a booking.model.ts file so that we can basically define how a booking object should look like
in our application and for that, I'll export a class named booking here and that class will have a constructor
where I now set up all the properties of this class and which are then also settable through the constructor
and for example, a booking should have an ID which will be of type string, a booking should have a place
ID because every booking relates to a place of course. A booking will also have a user ID because a
booking also relates to a user, a booking will also have more fields than just that, for example
also the title of the place which was booked and you could of course also embed the entire place
as an object here if you wanted to but I don't need all the place data, just some selected data
which is why I'm adding it as extra information and we can also add extra user data.
So for example, you can also add the guest number which would be of type number to find out how many
people will be attending or want to stay at this place for the selected time. And the selected
time is missing still,
that is something we'll add later once we add the user input fields.
So that is how a booking could look like and how we will continue working with it, we'll actually add
more fields throughout the course
but that's a good starting point.
Now next to the booking model, I'll add a booking service file and thus far, we always created that with
the CLI,
you can still do that but of course creating it manually is also not that difficult.
You export a class, you add @injectable and there, you should add providedIn root so that it is automatically
provided
application-wide and you can inject it anywhere. In here,
I now want to have my bookings, so for that, I'll add a private property, bookings which is of type booking
array and for that, you need to import a reference to your booking model,
so import booking from that booking.model file without the file extension and I will add a getter
here,
bookings, here I'm missing a G and the that will simply be returning a copy of this bookings, like
that.
So now we have that array but of course it's empty, so let me pre-populate it with some dummy bookings for
the time being
and then I have some ID here.
I have a place ID like p1 let's say, then we have the place title,
that was the Manhattan Mansion,
you can of course add any data you want here.
Guest number let's say is 2
and we also have a user ID here of ABC, so only one booking for the time being, it's only dummy data
so that will do. In the bookings.page.ts file, we now need that booking data
obviously. So in there in the constructor, I'll inject the bookings service which is of type bookings service
and for that to work, we need to import the bookings, not page, the bookings service from
./bookings.service, I'll name it differently in there, let's name it booking service.
Let me actually,
yes since the file is named as such, I'll also rename it here, booking service,
you could name it bookings service of course
and with that injected, in my bookings page here, I also want to have my let's say my loaded bookings
to not confuse the names which is also an array of bookings,
so make sure to import your booking model reference at the top as well and in ngOnInit,
I can set this loaded bookings equal to this booking service bookings and that will import my dummy
bookings of which I only have one.
Now definitely feel free to pause the video here and output these bookings in your template with any of
the information you have and you want and thereafter, we'll do that together.
Were you successful?
Let's output it together in the bookings page and for that in here,
you can get rid of the padding on the content,
I'll leave it here for now and I'll output an ion-list here and in that ion-list,
I'll have my ion-item but we want to make these items swipeable, right?
So for that, we add ion-item-sliding and the ion-item actually goes in there.
Now it's the ion-item-sliding which we want to repeat for all our booking data,
so the idea is to here add ngFor and then simply go through all the bookings of loadedBookings
here and that gives us all the data for a single booking on that booking property which we
can now output in the ion-item.
Now there, we could output the image of that place if we would store that in the booking service,
at the moment I'm not doing that yet,
so let's not output it, I guess.
Instead I'll just add an ion-label because I'll actually wrap two things here,
I'll have let's say a h5 tag to have a tiny header where I want to output my booking place
title and below that, a paragraph where I want to output the number of guests and
that is also a dynamic value because on a booking, we have that guest number property on our booking model.
With that
if you save that and you then go to your bookings, you see that one booking here.
Now obviously on a desktop device, it's way too large
as you can tell. So as a first step before I continue making this swipeable, let's add an ion-grid here
and of course always feel free to pause the video and then try this on your own,
make sure that this is not as wide on bigger screens but takes the full width on smaller screens. I'll
achieve this here by adding an ion-column and of course, I'll move that list into that column now, like
this
and on the column, the default is size twelve, right, which will automatically take the full width. Now
I want to make sure that on medium sized and bigger devices, I'm only taking six columns and therefore
to make this centered,
I'll offset this on medium-sized devices on bigger by three columns, so that we start after three
columns,
then we take six columns and then since we have 12 columns overall, we have three columns left
making this perfectly centered and therefore now when we save this, we should have a list which looks
much nicer and is centered only on bigger screens. On smaller screens like this mobile device here, we
still see it in the middle and we just got some normal padding which is introduced by the grid and by
this padding attribute here on the content which you can remove of course.
Now one thing is missing at the moment though, I added ion-item-sliding
but what is missing?
Well the options, the actual buttons. For this, you can add ion-item-options here and in there, you
have your ion-item-option elements
and I only need one option here and I'll give that option a colour of danger because we'll delete the
item with it and I'll say cancel.
And of course you could also render a trash bin icon,
so you could also enter ion-icon with the name of trash, that should be a nice trash bin and give
it a slot of icon-only. So whatever you like, text or icon or both combined.
The missing piece is that we now add a click listener, onCancelBooking and there, I'll forward the booking
ID
and what else?
Well to close the item, a reference to the ion-item-sliding element.
So here I'll add my sliding booking, whatever you want to name it and pass this as a second argument
to onCancelBooking and onCancelBooking is now simply a method you can add to your bookings.page.ts
file where the first argument will be the offerId of type string and
the second element will be a reference to the sliding element which is of type ion-item-sliding
and ion-item-sliding needs to be imported from @ionic/angular.
That allows us to again call slidingEl.close and then here, we can cancel booking with ID offerId
and that's all I'll do for now,
so not too useful because we're missing other basic features that would allow us to dynamically add bookings
and so on. So with that, reloaded here is the trash bin
and when I click it for now, it only closes, later we'll actually delete that item.